# BeePollination

#Introduction:
Honey bees have long been used as pollinators in agricultural production of a variety of crops. Estimates suggest that the value of agricultural bee pollination in the United States is more than $14 billion annually (Hackett, 2004). Foraging behaviors, including percentage flowers pollinated, distances travelled, and preference of petal type, have become a popular area of study (Brunet et al., 2019). Bee colonies update their foraging behaviors through a dynamic system of gathering information from the environment and communicating with the hive (Tereshko & Loengarov, 2005). Pollination has also become an essential research topic with the impending threat of climate change and decline in bee populations (Rader et al., 2013). Honey bees, with their preferred temperature of 24–30°C, have become a major target of climate change (Rader et al., 2013). Rader et al. (2013) predict that future increasing temperatures will reduce honey bee pollination by as much as 14.5%. Pesticides are also a leading cause of honey bee population decline, as they greatly increase the mortality rate and also inhibit pupae from developing into worker bees (Osborne, 2012). Now more than ever, foraging is a behavioral process that is vital to explore. The current study seeks to model honey bee foraging behavior on watermelon crops in a virtual farm. Our insights will have important ramifications for understanding and even repairing honey bee pollination at a time when resources are dwindling. Our goal was to examine the dynamics of bee movement and hive location in relation to agricultural pollination. We sought to develop a model of honey bee activity on a farm over the course of one season and analyze the effects of behavior, hive placement, and number of hives on the output of the farm, particularly through the number and distribution of watermelons pollinated.

#Conclusion:
We have proposed here a new model for predicting honey bee foraging behavior in a two-dimensional field. Despite its limitations, it provides a novel, useful framework for analyzing the dynamics of agricultural pollination. This is particularly relevant today as bee populations are declining at historic rates, with an estimated 40% of colonies lost last year (Bruckner et al., 2018). In this pivotal time for honey bee populations, studying bees is becoming increasingly important and models are necessary to predict field behavior and combat the effects of such dangers as climate change and pesticides. Models which predict honey bee behavior can be used to inform pest-management strategies, how bees respond to different agri-environment schemes, and risk assessments based on time and space (Osborne, 2012; Becher et al., 2014). Other models have helped to understand bee foraging behavior in response to droughts (Minckley et al., 2013), urbanization (Cane et al., 2006) and forest fragmentation (Brosi et al., 2008). This current model offers a more general application that can be applied to all of the above threats by predicting typical foraging behavior in a watermelon field, without accounting for some of the more specific and complex factors. We conclude that bee pollination models should be done primarily on the individual level, and that the behavioral model has wide-sweeping implications for the productivity of farms, noticing that there are diminishing marginal returns on additional bee hives that depend on placement and the size of the farm.
